Chance Events
The probability of an event is a number indicating how likely that event will occur. 
This number is always between 0 and 1

Expectation
The expectation of a random variable is a number that attempts to capture the center of that random variable's distribution. 
It can be interpreted as the long-run average of many independent samples from the given distribution.
E[X]=∑xP(x)
probability-weighted sum of all possible values
 

Variance

variance of a random variable quantifies the spread of that random variable's distribution. 
Var(X)=E[(X−E[X])^2
average value of the squared difference between the random variable and its expectation,


Compound Probability


Set Theory
collection of objects

Commutative Laws:


Discrete and Continuous
finite or countable number of possible values
A Bernoulli random variable takes the value 1 with probability of p
p
 and the value 0 with probability of 1−p
1−p
. It is frequently used to represent binary experiments, such as a coin toss.

PMF = f(x;p)={p = x=1
              1−p  x=0
              
              mean = p
              variance= p(1-p)
 A binomial random variable is the sum of n
n
independent Bernoulli random variables with parameter p
p
It is frequently used to model the number of successes in a specified number of identical binary experiments, 
such as the number of heads in five coin tosses.    

Geometric 
A geometric random variable counts the number of trials that are required to observe a single success, where each 
trial is independent and has success probability p
p. For example, this distribution can be used to model the number of 
times a die must be rolled in order for a six to be observed.


pission
A Poisson random variable counts the number of events occurring in a fixed interval of time or space, 
given that these events occur with an average rate λ
λ
. This distribution has been used to model events such as meteor showers and goals in a soccer match.


negative binomial random

For example, this distribution could be used to model the number of heads that are flipped before three tails are observed
in a sequence of coin tosses.


continous 

uniform
students T 
Student's t-distribution, or simply the t-distribution, arises when estimating the mean of a normally distributed 
population in situations where the sample size is small and population standard deviation is unknown.

chi squared 
A chi-squared random variable with k
k
 degrees of freedom is the sum of k
k
 independent and identically distributed squared standard normal random variables. 
 It is often used in hypothesis testing and in the construction of confidence intervals.
 
 The exponential distribution is the continuous analogue of the geometric distribution. 
 It is often used to model waiting times.
 
 The F-distribution, also known as the Fisher–Snedecor distribution, arises frequently as the null distribution of a
 test statistic, most notably in the analysis of variance.
 
 The gamma distribution is a general family of continuous probability distributions. 
 The exponential and chi-squared distributions are special cases of the gamma distribution.
 
 
 The beta distribution is a general family of continuous probability distributions bound between 0 and 1. 
 The beta distribution is frequently used as a conjugate prior distribution in Bayesian statistics.
 
 
 
 Frequentist Inference

Frequentist inference is the process of determining properties of an underlying distribution 
via the observation of data.
Point Estimation:One of the main goals of statistics is to estimate unknown parameters.
Confidence Interval:

A conditional probability is the probability of an event, given some other event has already occurred. 
In the below example, there are two possible events that can occur. A ball falling could either hit the red shelf
(we'll call this event A) or hit the blue shelf (we'll call this event B) or both.

If we know the statistics of these events across the entire population and then were to be given a single 
ball and told "this ball hit the red shelf (event A), what's the probability it also hit the blue shelf (event B)?" 
we could answer this question by providing the conditional probability of B given that A occurred or P(B|A).

