At many points in your career, you'll need to be able to build complete, end-to-end data science projects on your own. Data science projects usually consist of one of two things:

An exploration and analysis of a set of data. One example might involve analyzing donors to political campaigns, creating a plot, and then sharing an analysis of the plot with others.
An operational system that generates predictions based on data that updates continually. An algorithm that pulls in daily stock ticker data and predicts which stock prices will rise and fall would be one example.
You'll find the ability to create data science projects useful in several different contexts:

Projects will help you build a portfolio, which is critical to finding a job as a data analyst or scientist.
Working on projects will help you learn new skills and reinforce existing concepts.
Most "real-world" data science and analysis work consists of developing internal projects.
Projects allow you to investigate interesting phenomena and satisfy your curiosity.
Whether you aim to become a data scientist or analyst or you're just curious about the world, building projects can be immensely rewarding.

https://github.com/dataquestio/loan-prediction, an example of a finished project.

In this mission, we'll walk through the first part of a complete data science project, including how to acquire the raw data. The project will focus on exploring and analyzing a data set. We'll develop our data cleaning and storytelling skills, which will enable us to build complete projects on our own.

We'll focus primarily on data exploration in this mission. We'll also combine several messy data sets into a single clean one to make analysis easier. Over the next few missions, we'll work through the rest of our project and perform the actual analysis.

The first step in creating a project is to decide on a topic. You want the topic to be something you're interested in and motivated to explore. It's very obvious when people are making projects just to make them, rather than out of a genuine interest in the topic.

Here are two ways to go about finding a good topic:

Think about what sectors or angles you're really interested in, then find data sets relating to those sectors.
Review several data sets, and find one that seems interesting enough to explore.
Whichever approach you take, you can start your search at these sites:

https://www.data.gov/ - A directory of government data downloads
https://reddit.com/r/datasets - A subreddit that has hundreds of interesting data sets
https://github.com/caesar0301/awesome-public-datasets - A list of data sets hosted on GitHub
http://rs.io/100-interesting-data-sets-for-statistics/ - A great blog post with hundreds of interesting data sets

In real-world data science, you may not find an ideal data set. You might have to aggregate disparate data sources instead, or do a good amount of data cleaning.

For the purposes of this project, we'll be using data about New York City public schools, which can be found here.
