So far, we've learned how to use the pandas library and how to create visualizations with data sets that didn't require much cleanup. However, most data sets in real life require extensive cleaning and manipulation to extract any meaningful insights. In fact, Forbes estimates that data scientists spend about 60% of their time cleaning and organizing data, so it's critical to be able to manipulate data quickly and efficiently.

In this course, we'll learn the following:

Data aggregation
How to combine data
How to transform data
How to clean strings with pandas
How to handle missing and duplicate data
You'll need some basic knowledge of pandas and matplotlib to complete this course, including:

Basic knowledge of pandas dataframes and series
How to select values and filter a dataframe
Knowledge of data exploration methods in pandas, such as the info and head methods
How to create visualizations in pandas and matplotlib
All of these prerequisites are taught in our Pandas and NumPy Fundamentals, Exploratory Data Visualization, and Storytelling Through Data Visualization courses. If you haven't completed those courses and aren't comfortable with the concepts above, we suggest completing them before continuing here.

In this course, we'll work with the World Happiness Report, an annual report created by the UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network with the intent of guiding policy. The report assigns each country a happiness score based on the answers to a poll question that asks respondents to rank their life on a scale of 0 - 10.

It also includes estimates of factors that may contribute to each country's happiness, including economic production, social support, life expectancy, freedom, absence of corruption, and generosity, to provide context for the score. Although these factors aren't actually used in the calculation of the happiness score, they can help illustrate why a country received a certain score.

Throughout this course, we'll work to answer the following questions:

How can aggregating the data give us more insight into happiness scores?
How did world happiness change from 2015 to 2017?
Which factors contribute the most to the happiness score?
In this mission, we'll start by learning how to aggregate data. Then in the following missions, we'll learn different data cleaning skills that can help us aggregate and analyze the data in different ways. We'll start by learning each topic in isolation, but build towards a more complete data cleaning workflow by the end of the course.
